GITHUB LINK : https://github.com/obfdp/biswas.5.git

Operating System Simulator

This will be your main program and serve as the master process. You will start the operating system simulator (call the
executable oss) as the main process who will fork multiple children at random times. The randomness will be simulated by
a logical clock that will be updated by oss. You should have two unsigned integers for the clock; one will show the time in
seconds and the other will show the time in nanoseconds, offset from the beginning of a second.

In the beginning, oss will allocate shared memory for system data structures, including resource descriptors for each resource.
All the resources are static but some of them may be shared. The resource descriptor is a fixed size structure and contains
information on managing the resources within oss. Make sure that you allocate space to keep track of activities that affect the
resources, such as request, allocation, and release. The resource descriptors will reside in shared memory and will be accessible
to the children. Create descriptors for 20 resources, out of which about 20% should be sharable resources1. After creating the
descriptors, make sure that they are populated with an initial number of resources; assign a number between 1 and 10 (inclusive)
for the initial instances in each resource class. You may have to initialize another structure in the descriptor to indicate the
allocation of specific instances of a resource to a process. Each process should also have maximum claims associated with it,
with the maximum claim for any particular process being random from 1 to the maximum available resources of that type.
After the resources have been set up, fork a user process at random times (between 1 and 500 milliseconds of your logical
clock). Make sure that you never have more than 18 user processes in the system. If you already have 18 processes, do not
create any more until some process terminates. Your user processes execute concurrently and there is no scheduling performed.
They run in a loop constantly till they have to terminate.

oss also makes a decision based on the received requests whether the resources should be allocated to processes or not. It does
so by running the deadlock avoidance algorithm with the current request from a process and grants the resources if it is safe,
updating all the data structures. If a process releases resources, it updates that as well, and may give resources to some waiting
processes. If it cannot allocate resources, the process goes in a queue waiting for the resource requested. When a resource gets
released, oss should check to see if any currently waiting processes can have their request granted.

How time passes
The clock in this project operates differently from previous projects. In this project, the clock will be continually incremented
by oss in order that time will advance in the system. That is, after setting things up, it will check to see if any user processes
have requested resource, then increment the clock, over and over in a loop, until it terminates. The amount you increment on
each iteration of the loop should be greater than 1 ns, or your simulation would run slower than real time.
1 about implies that it should be 20 ±5% and you should generate that number with a random number generator.

User Processes
While the user processes are not actually doing anything, they will ask for resources at random times. You should have a
parameter giving a bound Bfor when a process should request (or release) a resource in nanoseconds. Each process, every time
it is scheduled, should generate a random number in the range [0,B] and after that amount of time has passed in the system,
it should try and either claim a new resource or release an already acquired resource. It should make the request by putting a
request in shared memory. It will continue to loop and check to see if it is granted that resource.
Note that user processes should only request or release one resource at a time and that they should never request more than their
maximum claim for that resource.
The user processes can ask for resources at random times. Make sure that the process does not ask for more than the maximum
number of resource instances at any given time, the total for a process (request + allocation) should always be less than or equal
to the maximum number of instances of a specified resources.
At random times (between 0 and 250ms), the process checks if it should terminate. If so, it should release all the resources
allocated to it by communicating to oss that it is releasing all those resources. Make sure to do this only after a process has
run for at least 1 second. If the process is not to terminate, make the process request (or release) some resources. It will do so
by putting a request in the shared memory. The request should never exceed the total number of resources of that class within
the system. Also update the system clock. The process may decide to give up resources instead of asking for them.
I want you to keep track of statistics during your runs. Keep track of how many requests have been granted immediately
and how many are granted after waiting for a bit. Also track the number of processes that are terminated by the deadlock
detection/recovery algorithm vs processes that eventually terminated successfully. Also note how many times the deadlock
avoidance algorithm is run, how many processes it had to terminate, and percentage of processes in a deadlock that had to be
terminated on an average.
Make sure that you have signal handling to terminate all processes, if needed. In case of abnormal termination, make sure to
remove shared memory and semaphores.
When writing to the log file, you should have two ways of doing this. One setting (verbose on) should indicate in the log file
every time oss gives someone a requested resource or when master sees that a user has finished with a resource. It should also
log the time when a request is not granted and the process goes to sleep waiting for the resource. In addition, every 20 granted
requests, output a table showing the current resources allocated to each process

Implementation :

Sometimes seeing segmentation fault. Executing the code multiple times is clearing the issue. 
Working on this to fix the segmentation fault issue.
